add mitigation for unsupported normalization in security best practice (#9917)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/ops/best-practices/security/index.md

It is important to understand the implications of these configurations as Istio cannot determine the proper authorization for all users.
Please follow this section in its entirety.

> ### Safer Authorization Policy Pattern

Reviewer: Patterns

> #### Apply default-deny authorization policies

Reviewer: And we seem to go between pattern and policy. Not sure if it makes sense to change policies here to pattern.

Author: yes good point, updated the title to `use default-deny pattern` be more consistent.

the authorization policy named `allow-nothing` makes sure all traffic is denied by default.
From there, other authorization policies allow traffic based on specific conditions.

#### Use `ALLOW-with-positive-matching` and `DENY-with-negative-match` patterns

Use the `ALLOW-with-positive-matching` or `DENY-with-negative-matching` patterns whenever possible. These authorization policy
patterns are safer because the worst result in the case of policy mismatch is an unexpected 403 rejection instead of
an authorization policy bypass.

The `ALLOW-with-positive-matching` pattern is to use the `ALLOW` action only with **positive** matching fields (e.g. `paths`, `values`)
and do not use any of the **negative** matching fields (e.g. `notPaths`, `notValues`).

The `DENY-with-negative-matching` pattern is to use the `DENY` action only with **negative** matching fields (e.g. `notPaths`, `notValues`)
and do not use any of the **positive** matching fields (e.g. `paths`, `values`).

> For example, the authorization policy below uses the `ALLOW-with-positive-matching` pattern to allow requests at path `/public`:

Reviewer: s/at/to?

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: foo
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        paths: ["/public"]
{{< /text >}}

> The above policy explicitly lists the allowed path (`/public`). This means the request path must be exactly the same as
> `/public` to let the request allowed by the policy. Any other requests will be rejected by default eliminating the risk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above policy explicitly lists the allowed path (`/public`). This means the request path must be exactly the same as
`/public` to allow the request. Any other requests will be rejected by default eliminating the risk
```

of unknown normalization behavior causing policy bypass.

> The following is another example using the `DENY-with-negative-matching` pattern to achieve the same result:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is an example using the `DENY-with-negative-matching` pattern to achieve the same result:
```

          ...
    {{< /text >}}

### Mitigation for unsupported normalization

> This section describes various mitigation for unsupported normalization. These could be useful when you find a specific

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

normalization that is not supported by Istio.

Please make sure you understand the mitigation thoroughly and use it carefully. Some mitigation is just best-effort workaround
that is not well tested or rely on things that are not supported by Istio.

> #### Safer Authorization Policy Pattern

Reviewer 3: I suggest moving this up and make the "Apply default-deny authorization policies" a subsection of it:

## Authorization policies

### Safer Authorization Policy Pattern

#### Use default-deny authorization policies
(Content from https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/best-practices/security/#apply-default-deny-authorization-policies)

#### Use `ALLOW-with-positive-matching` and `DENY-with-negative-match` patterns
(Content from this section)

Author: sounds good.

Use the `ALLOW-with-positive-matching` or `DENY-with-negative-matching` patterns whenever possible. These authorization policy

> patterns are safer because the worst result in the case of policy mismatch is just an unexpected 403 rejection instead of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
patterns are safer because the worst result in the case of policy mismatch is an unexpected 403 rejection instead of
```

and do not use any of the **positive** matching fields (e.g. `paths`, `values`).

For example, the authorization policy below uses the `ALLOW-with-positive-matching` pattern to allow requests at path `/public`:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: foo
spec:
  action: ALLOW
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        paths: ["/public"]
{{< /text >}}

The above policy explicitly lists the allowed path (`/public`). This means the request path must be exactly the same as
`/public` to let the request allowed by the policy. Any other requests will be rejected by default eliminating the risk
of unknown normalization behavior causing policy bypass.

The following is another example using the `DENY-with-negative-matching` pattern to achieve the same result:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: foo
spec:
  action: DENY
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        notPaths: ["/public"]
{{< /text >}}

#### Custom normalization logic

You can apply custom normalization logic using the WASM or Lua filter. It is recommended to use the WAM filter because

> it's officially supported and also used by Istio. The Lua filter could also be used if you need a quick proof-of-concept

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
it's officially supported and also used by Istio. We do not recommend using the Lua filter in production
```

> but please be aware the Lua filter is not supported by Istio.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
because it is not supported by Istio.
```

##### Example custom normalization (case normalization)

In some environments, it may be useful to have paths in authorization policies compared in a case insensitive manner.
For example, treating `https://myurl/get` and `https://myurl/GeT` as equivalent.

> In those cases, the `EnvoyFilter` shown below can be used to insert a Lua filter to normalize the path to lower case.

Reviewer 3: If the Lua filter is not officially supported by Istio, how do we claim this solution can be used trouble-free in production? Is this just a best-effort fix?

Author: the Lua filter is for quick proof-of-concept, not production traffic.

Reviewer: Should be remove the Lua filter and replace it with an Envoy filter so we are showing a supported solution? Or is an Envoy Filter not something we can document here.

Author: The Lua filter was added as a mitigation of the previous CVE (Goldpanda), I think we could keep it there until we have the WASM demo ready.

      ...
{{< /text >}}

### Mitigation for unsupported normalization

This section describes various mitigations for unsupported normalization. These could be useful when you find a specific
normalization that is not supported by Istio.

> Please make sure you understand the mitigation thoroughly and use it carefully. Some mitigation is just best-effort workaround

Reviewer: I'm not sure I like the second sentence and it seems we are documenting untested, not our best effort items. It also needs to be reworked grammatically.

Author: Updated the wording, I just want to give the user a heads up that some mitigations are out the scope of Istio.

out the scope of Istio and also not supported by Istio.

#### Custom normalization logic

> You can apply custom normalization logic using the WASM or Lua filter. It is recommended to use the WAM filter because

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can apply custom normalization logic using the WASM or Lua filter. It is recommended to use the WASM filter because
```

> it's officially supported and also used by Istio. You could use the Lua filter for quick proof-of-concept DEMO but we do

Reviewer: for **a**

                  end
    {{< /text >}}

#### Specialized Web Application Firewall (WAF)

Many specialized Web Application Firewall (WAF) products provide more normalization options. It can be deployed in
front of the Istio ingress gateway to normalize requests entering the mesh, the authorization policy will then be enforced
on the normalized requests. Please refer to your specific WAF product for configuring the normalization options.

> #### Feature request to Istio

Reviewer 3: @yanavlasov Please take a look

              end
{{< /text >}}

#### Specialized Web Application Firewall (WAF)

> Many specialized Web Application Firewall (WAF) products provide more normalization options. It can be deployed in

Reviewer: s/more/additional

Reviewer: s/It/They

> front of the Istio ingress gateway to normalize requests entering the mesh, the authorization policy will then be enforced

Reviewer: the mesh. The authorization

on the normalized requests. Please refer to your specific WAF product for configuring the normalization options.

#### Feature request to Istio

> If you believe Istio should officially support a specific normalization, you could follow the [reporting a vulnerability](/docs/releases/security-vulnerabilities/#reporting-a-vulnerability)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you believe Istio should officially support a specific normalization, you can follow the [reporting a vulnerability](/docs/releases/security-vulnerabilities/#reporting-a-vulnerability)
```

page to send a feature request about the specific normalization to the Istio Product Security Work Group for initial evaluation.

Please do not open any issues in public without first contacting the Istio Product Security Work Group because the

> issue might be considered as a security vulnerability that needs to be fixed in private.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
issue might be considered a security vulnerability that needs to be fixed in private.
```

> If Istio Product Security Work Group evaluates the feature request not a security vulnerability, an issue will be opened

Reviewer: If the .... to not be a security ...

> If the Istio Product Security Work Group evaluates the feature request to not be a security vulnerability, an issue will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the Istio Product Security Work Group evaluates the feature request as not a security vulnerability, an issue will
```
